my girlfriend said to me that she could
not believe that a Nissen passed up the
opportunity as a comedian to make a joke
or make some kind of social commentary
Oh to the fact that Chris Hanson
this TV news broadcaster showed up on
his doorstep my girlfriend said to me
why didn't a Nissen run to his closet
get out his banana costume and come and
meet this guy at his doorstep singing
and dancing like a banana something
anything if you are a comedian
why can't you step it up and take
advantage of this opportunity comedian
but we can also say if you're a
political commentator if you're an
activist if you're a social justice
warrior whoever you think of yourself
advocating for a cause or a message some
kind of attempt to make the world a
better place then also these
opportunities
why can't you step up you know and have
something meaningful to say take
advantage of it in that way to deliver
some kind of message to examine some
kind of social or political problem as
soon as you commit to that idea of
yourself as a crater creating content
for an audience there's something much
much scarier than losing the audience
and that is the possibility of losing
your own voice as a creator um initia
knew one of the most dramatic and
disastrous examples of a guy who just
plain ran out of talent in a more subtle
but no less obvious way we can look at a
guy like the amazing atheist and the
reinvention of his channel that at one
time had scripted comedy that one time
had a more actively creative world and
we can actually see I think a closely
parallel form of creative exhaustion
this video is partly talking about a
youtuber named the amazing atheist it's
partly talking about a youtuber named
initia and it's partly talking about the
meaning of YouTube itself of doing
YouTube and I want you guys in the
audience to keep in mind
every single one of you could start
uploading videos tomorrow there's no
barrier here between the audience and
the creators role in the past it's not
as if you could go to a Hollywood movie
you know being projected onto the silver
screen in a theater it's not as if you
could sit there in the audience and say
oh tomorrow I could wake up and make a
movie of my own but this platform this
unique medium we all participate in
there's no barrier between the artists
role and the creator's role tomorrow you
could sit down in front of a camera with
a microphone you could stop listening
and start talking and you could become
one of the people who contributes your
own life your own experience your own
perspective your own opinions to this
thing we do called YouTube so yeah for
me for you for many of us the meaning of
YouTube is a significant part of the
meaning of life I want to start this
video by saying honesty is an important
part of what we do want YouTube but
honesty is a simple word gathering
together a lot of complex concepts and
what really matters here on YouTube is
not the same kind of honesty of a little
kid admitting to his or her parents that
they've stolen something it's not the
same kind of honesty as a boyfriend
admitting that he cheated on his
girlfriend what really matters on
YouTube is a kind of rigorous
risk-taking honesty where we challenge
ourselves and we challenge the audience
by talking through issues in a rigorous
way and in a manner that really thinks
through the full consequences the full
implications of our ideas I look at a
guy like the amazing atheist who now is
primarily a channel talking about
politics and it seems to me that he's
completely forgotten that you know if
you look at what he does on YouTube
and you look at broadcast news like CNN
he has every disadvantage except for
this kind of rigorous risk-taking
honesty right that's the one thing he
can do that CNN can't do right now again
I'm gonna come back to an SDN I talked
earnest in just a moment
something something similar could be
said something similar could be said for
you and me all of us here participating
in YouTube to some extent the amazing
atheist made a video and it's a very
successful video the audience seems to
like it a lot of viewers tuned in for it
he made a video talking about illegal
immigration and low-wage labor in the
United States and the policies of Bernie
Sanders okay and from my perspective his
video is really cowardly and really
dishonest it's more like the type of
it's more like the type of half truth I
would expect from CNN from broadcast
television news okay
now broadcast television news let's kind
of appreciate the position they're in
they have to be a little bit dishonest
and a little bit censored and you know
theft of this veneer of professionalism
but on the other hand they have access
to resources they have access to
research they have access to politicians
they have access to interviews you know
they have staff distributed around the
world who could actually go to an event
and witness it in person and report on
it CNN has many many advantages over a
youtuber right but a youtuber can come
on camera and really talk through the
issues in all their implications in a
kind of radically unsettlingly honest
way where we talk about what it means to
us you know what it could mean in the
future will we really think things
through and deal with deal with the
unthinkable consequences of these ideas
of these political policies and maybe of
the decisions we make in our own lives
so on and so forth right I mean not
every video has to be deeply personal it
could be political it could be economic
and I'm sitting there watching this guy
yeah of course he's one of the original
he's one of the guys who redefined this
medium and how it works and he redefined
it just through his own brainless
self-indulgent shenanigans like I'm not
saying that the amazing atheist was a
theorist or a philosopher who came here
on YouTube and changed the way YouTube
works he was a reckless idiot but he
improvised and innovated and changed the
way YouTube works and I would say that
about an isiand to an Essene is a
complete idiot but for a lot of us he
made us all think differently about the
creative role of a full-time youtuber or
a professional youtuber what it meant to
aspire to do YouTube is a job whether
under the heading of commentary or
comedy or even politics or even activism
all these people are in part kind of
leaders of political opinion it and
activism um you know if we can't come on
camera and really be honest
recklessly honest risk-taking ly honest
if the amazing atheist can't come on
camera and really talk through illegal
immigration and its implications for
low-wage labor in the United States if
he has to be this much of a coward and
be self-centered partly self-censored
also self-centered it's both she has to
be self censored and and carefully
coaches terms and make all these
mealy-mouthed excuses if that guy can't
sit down and really talk through the
hypocrisy xand contradictions in the
political platform of Bernie Sanders who
can like who are you gonna tune into
because you can't get that you can't get
that from from CNN now I'll give you a
really brief example I am gonna come
back to this hint here you know it
bothers me that I read seemingly
respectable research reports about
Bernie Sanders discussing the knock-on
effects the economic effects of his
proposal for a $15 minimum wage and and
these are completely designed
they're completely lacking this kind of
honesty and you sir you can google
around right now and you'll see these
reports they look very respectable
they're made by you know political
action committees and lobbying groups
various kinds of Pro Bernie Sanders
political forces that are hooked there
and they'll reassure you that you know
all kinds of experts and professors and
even leaders of Industry various sectors
of the economy they support a $15
minimum wage and there were only
positive things to say about a $15
minimum wage there's absolutely nothing
negative to say a $15 minimum wage you
know one one possible negative aspect to
think through is what the amazing
atheist was trying to wrestle with that
if wages in the United States are
radically higher than South America
Central America Latin America then
obviously people want to come from those
countries to the United States to work
those higher wages yes minimum wage in
New Mexico $6 an hour you tell me what
industry what form of manufacturing what
form of manual labor would not relocate
from the United States to Mexico if in
the United States minimum wage is $15
and in Mexico the minimum wage is $6 the
difference in wages just looking at
these two countries that are adjacent
the difference in wages is so extreme
that you could not justify manufacturing
t-shirts in the United States you could
not justify manufacturing televisions
blenders kitchenware cars anything right
on the contrary with so radical and
fundamental a difference in wages you
could justify relocating American
workers to Mexico getting work permits
for American workers to live and work
legally in Mexico where they would get
lower wages and also have better
purchasing to our problem of a better
quality of life than they would in the
United States at the same level of wages
right so anyone now can Google
and nobody does this I mean CNN doesn't
do this the amazing atheist doesn't do
this anyone can google the percentage of
the American economy that is comprised
of industrial employment you can also
try to get statistics for manufacturing
employment specifically the category of
industry is very very broad
I just know many things included in
industry that are not factory employment
that are not manufacturing today case
and you will see that over time over the
last 40 years that percentage the
American economy comprised of industry
the percentage of people employed
industry has gone down and down and down
it's even gone down since 2008 but you
know throughout our lifetimes going back
many many decades why have I never once
heard Bernie Sanders or any other
supporters or even any of his critics
deal with the question of projecting
estimating for the future what will
happen to the American economy what will
happen to American industry what will
happen to American manufacturing if the
minimum wage is raised to $15 an hour
it's so fundamental and so obvious a
question you know you can go through
sector by sector now there are some
industries that that won't move that
won't be able to relocate right I mean
okay fishing agriculture yes but those
same industries could also massively
switch from illegal to illegal
employment and I've lived in countries
that's a huge problem in Thailand a huge
percentage of the people working on
fishing boats are working illegally when
I was there including you know outright
slave labor really really bad examples
like that that's one of the reason it
was studied and published about was the
concern about slave labor not just
illegal labor so farming and fishing
those industries that can't relocate to
Mexico they can start employing people
illegally you could have a huge black
market for labor because $15 an hour is
unattainable for the for the employers
you know you get this kind of response
okay and on the other hand every
industry that can relocate will relocate
and Mexico is of course not the lowest
lowest set of wages in the world not
long shot currently unemployment in
Mexico is only about 3% 3% 3% or 4%
around there you know it varies from
month to month but basically
unemployment rate in Mexico is as close
to zero as it can be in this type of
economy you know there's the whole
continent of Africa there are large
parts of Asia all over the world there
are low wage places where you can
manufacture and then export the United
States there are many many options
beyond Mexico but the example of Mexico
alone in a world where the United States
adopts a $15 an hour minimum wage in the
absence of other policies to compensate
and I've discussed policies comes it
doesn't if we can't talk this through on
YouTube
if we can't really recklessly and
honestly talk this through why does this
medium exist look why are we here
what do we have mouths for what do we
have brains for what do we have cameras
for ok because hey I really feel like
this kind of honesty even if you just
come on camera and and and see you don't
know even if you just come on camera and
say what I said like I wish there were
economists crunching these numbers and
doing projections I wish there were
supporters of Bernie Sanders not even
critics who would attempt to extrapolate
and project an estimate what the impacts
are because currently if nobody does
that this social cause is just not
credible I've read Bernie Sanders book I
have it here on my desk actually I've
read Bernie Sanders book in addition to
listening to his lectures and the bland
reassurances he has that increasing
minimum wage will just somehow have a
positive effect on the whole economy
it's deeply dishonest it's propaganda
and it may be propaganda we all
participate in because I of course I
would prefer to have Bernie Sanders as
president United States rather than the
Donald Trump of course I would of course
that would but that this is a deep
concern can't I just at least come on
camera and share this concern this doubt
this question in a rigorous honest way
in a way that challenges me where I'm
challenging myself when I'm challenging
my audience and if we can't do that you
know what do you Tube channels like the
amazing atheists become the amazing
atheist was a channel that used to take
risks and it used to take risks
creatively I just want to say this very
briefly when I take risks as a creator
you and the audience may not feel it you
may not perceive it what's risky for me
may not be seen or felt as risky for you
as soon as you accept the idea that what
you're doing here on YouTube is a
creative process as soon as you kind of
commit to the idea of yourself as a
creator which not everybody does and
that's fine some people just film like
their family picnic and upload it to
YouTube that's fine but as soon as you
commit to that idea of yourself as a
courier creating content for an audience
there's something much much scarier than
losing the audience and that is the
possibility of losing your own voice as
a creator all right what's scarier than
losing the audience is the storyteller
running out of stories to tell right
he's looking in the mirror one day and
recognizing that you've run out of
talent and of course one of the most
dramatic and extreme examples of this we
can all witness is an isiand
my girlfriend said to me that she could
not believe that an isiand passed up the
opportunity as a comedian to make a joke
or make some kind of social commentary
out of the fact that Chris Hansen this
TV news broadcaster showed up on his
doorstep my girlfriend said to me why
didn't a nishan run to his closet get
out his banana costume and come and meet
this guy at his doorstep singing and
dancing like a banana something anything
if you are a comedian
why can't you step it up and take
advantage of this opportunity as a
comedian but we can also say
if you're a political commentator if
you're an activist if you're a social
justice warrior whoever you think of
yourself advocating for a cause or a
message some kind of attempt to make the
world a better place then also these
opportunities
why can't you step up you know and have
something meaningful to say take
advantage of it in that way to deliver
some kind of message
to examine some kind of social or
political problem um anisia must be one
of the most dramatic and disastrous
examples of a guy who just plain ran out
of talent someone looking this in
started as a comedian became creatively
exhausted as a comedian moved on
increasingly to doing drama and
commentary videos he began leaning on
increasingly this idea of himself as
kind of morally superior to his audience
this idea of himself giving morality
lectures to his audience he got addicted
to that early on and then under each one
of these headings he quickly became
creatively exhausted he had nothing to
say he really struggled against his
audience he started becoming reproachful
to and insulting towards his audience
and then how does the story end it ends
with it you know his bizarre current
creative collapse where all he can do is
come on camera and feel sorry for
himself and demand to know why the
audience doesn't feel sorry for himself
also in a more subtle but no less
obvious way we can look at a guy like
the amazing atheist and the reinvention
of his channel that at one time had
scripted comedy that one time had a more
actively creative world and we can
actually see I think a closely parallel
form of creative exhaustion in both
cases I think the fundamentally false
step they took was in forgetting the
role of this kind of radical honesty
right an honesty where when you sit down
on camera
you're challenging yourself you're
challenging the audience you're
recognizing that we on YouTube will
never do what CNN does I think we will
never do what Hollywood does unless you
have a really big budget YouTube channel
and a lot of people collaborating and
contributing and YouTube was created as
a platform for self-expression things
changed the nature of the censorship
changed the nature of the monetization
changed the nature of the opportunity
changed okay but I think maybe we're
forgetting on a really fundamental level
what did not change that this is the
medium that for the first time
utterly removes that barrier between
members of the audience and the
filmmaker or you know members of the
listening public and the broadcaster
where you and you and you can also step
up to take the broadcaster's role and
there is no requirement that you do any
research you know there's no requirement
that you be good-looking or talented or
hard-working you know but I think that
one requirement is that you're honest
there's something really valuable about
somebody coming on camera and saying I
don't understand because that's the one
thing nobody on CNN will say that's the
one thing on broadcast news no say
nobody will read Bernie Sanders book or
listen to Bernie Sanders speech and just
say to you honestly I don't understand
why this guy never deals with the
implications of the $15 an hour minimum
wage the amazing atheist recent video
nobody will come and say I don't
understand how this guy utterly fails to
deal with the implications of
immigration policy illegal immigrants so
on and so forth he wants the distinction
of Donald Trump there's a huge problem
here that could be solved that could be
addressed but look even if I don't have
the resources in terms of research I may
not
have all the answers but here on YouTube
I can at least have all the right
questions I can share with you my doubts
I can share with you my perspective and
we can challenge one another creatively
you know that's really the endless
horizon of YouTube whether you're
looking at that horizon in terms of
comedy or social commentary or politics
and yet the warning that a real-world
example like an Sen or a real-world
example like the amazing atheist shows
for us is when you wake up every day and
stare into that camera when you everyday
have to face that endless horizon when
you everyday look at that infinite
pocket of the internet and you try to
fill it a lot of people a lot of people
within a few years reach a point of
creative exhaustion they reach a point
of intellectual bankruptcy where even
when the greatest opportunity shows up
on their doorstep literally they
suddenly find they have no
song-and-dance anymore they have in a
sense nothing to say
[Music]